Simulation-of-Elliptical-Satellite-Constellation
================================================

Simulation of Elliptical Satellite Constellation

Nowadays, satellite constellations are widely used for communication, including telephony and networking. Since a single satellite can not cover the entire world, it is necessary to launch a number of satellites to provide service for larger area. These satellites are called satellite constellation. In practice, the majority of the constructed and proposed systems employ circular orbits, where communication can be done at a constant altitude, link budget, and delay, throughout the entire orbit. In fact, there are also constellations using non-circular orbits, which are elliptical orbits. Ns2 is a discrete event simulator targeted at networking research. It provides substantial support for simulation of TCP, routing, and multicast protocols over wired and wireless (local and satellite) networks. Ns2 simulator could simulate Internet protocols over moving satellites, but currently does not support elliptical orbits. 

This project aims to simulate and understand these elliptical satellite constellation proposals, and their characteristics, from orbital and transmission viewpoints. Elliptical orbit is successfully simulated by adding new objects and functions into the existing simulation tools. Some changes will be applied for the ns2 simulation in order to support the elliptical orbits. Assessing the impact of the delay to highly-elliptical orbit apogee (which can lie beyond geostationary orbit) on Internet protocols is an expected outcome.
